---
layout: post
title: Don't Like Talking to People? Get Curious.
---

**_3 years after I said that my blog is coming soon, I am finally taking a leap of faith and posting my first blog post. I have been hesistant about posting a blog post because I don't want to embarass myself with my terrible writing. I am starting this with a mindset that my first 100 posts will be bad. Hopefully, I will get better eventually._**

**_Anyway, following is a blog post written as a part of [User Oriented Collaborative Design](http://www.olin.edu/course-listing/engr2250-user-oriented-collaborative-design/) course at Olin. I talk about the importance of getting genuinely curious about people that you are designing your project for._**


“Engineering starts with people and ends with people,” they are the words that are deeply embedded with Olin College’s approach to engineering education. User Oriented Collaborative Design (UOCD), a mandatory design course for Olin students, is a course specifically designed to let students experience the first half of the aforementioned statement: “engineering starts with people.” We, sophomores of Olin including myself, work to address the real human needs of a certain people group, ranging from voluntary EMTs to animal shelter workers. We just finished the first phase of the course, “Get Curious”, which was all about getting to know our user group, and I would like to share few thoughts about my experience.

My people group is people working in public defense and legal aid. I chose this group because I was interested in getting to know people who are working with a marginalized group of people in our legal system. The first phase of the course was exactly what I wanted to do, which was getting to know people group of our choice, so I should have had enjoyed the whole experience. Well, not quite.

There is no better alternative than having a candid in-person conversation to understand a person’s life. However, being a quite introverted person who does not like interacting with a someone that I do not know well, I did not enjoy the process of meeting my user group and getting to know them. Even though I stated above that I was genuinely interested in people working in public defense and civic legal aids, it would be more accurate to say that I was interested in the work and job of those people, not an individual person. Because I did not enjoy interviewing people, which was such a crucial component of this phase, I had a trouble collecting useful insights and gradually lost an interest and excitement that I had when I chose this group as my user group. I was fully aware of this problem at the time and was troubled by the fact that I did not enjoy the course and work that I had to do even though I strongly empathized with the core premise of UOCD, that “engineering starts with people.” 

However, there was one interview that I thoroughly enjoyed. Though it was uncomfortable and exhausting as other usual interviews, I came out of the interview room feeling inspired, satisfied, and fulfilled. Thinking retrospectively about what was different about this interview, I got an idea of how to tackle this problem. A new mindset that helped me reconcile the gap between being an introvert who does not like talking to strangers and doing an user-oriented design that starts with getting to know people. 

My enlightening interview was an interview with a public defender. Even though my user group is a big amalgamation of everyone who works within a legal system to help people marginalized in our society, I was especially more interested in the work of public defenders compared to other professions. Therefore, unlike other interviews, I prepared the interview with a genuine curiosity and enthusiasm to learn more about a person that I would be talking to. In retrospect, I think the biggest difference between this interview and other interviews was the fact that I was genuinely interested to learn about the person sitting across me, both as a public defender and a human being. I was interested to learn about what kind of work a public defender does (my curiosity about the interviewee as a public defender) and I was equally interested to learn about what motivated her to be a public defender (curiosity about the interviewee as a person). 

The interview was full of insightful stories and ideas that I was able to get only because I conducted an interview with a genuine interest and curiosity. This was a key piece that was missing in my other interviews. I was not curious to learn the whole picture. I was only interested in the work that people were doing, not a person as a whole. 

If I can give one advice based on my experience to future UOCD students or any engineers trying to do a human-centered design, I would tell them to get curious. Have a genuine interest in people you are talking to. Ask them about work they do but don’t forget to understand them as a person. If you are introverted person like I am, the interview process won’t get easier or comfortable. However, the amount and depth of insights and stories you will get when you have a conversation with a desire to understand others as humans and curiosity to learn about others will be worth it.
